Add Getting Started Guide with Helm Chart (Scalar DB) (#84)
scalar-labs/helm-charts: docs/getting-started-scalardb.md

# Getting Started with Helm Charts (Scalar DB Server)

> This document explains how to get started with Scalar DB Server by using Helm Chart in your test environment. Here, we assume that you already have a Linux Server as a test environment.

Reviewer: The guide should probably work with local Mac, right?
(We can let the QA team (Boney) see if it works with Mac.)

Author: Thank you for review!

> The guide should probably work with local Mac, right?

Yes. All component run as container on Docker.
And, all tools (Docker, minikube, kubectl, helm) provide binary for Mac.
So, probably, I think this guide works with local Mac.

Author: In the result of test by Boney-san, this guide works fine as expected in the Mac environment. 
So, I added `Mac` in the assumption environment as follows. 

> Here, we assume that you already have a Mac or Linux environment for testing.

1a087a9cabbc0f283ae00a33c38f82089f779d11

## Tools

> In this guide, we will use the following tools for testing.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use the following tools for testing.  
```

1. Docker
1. minikube
1. kubectl
1. Helm

## Environment

> In this guide, we will create the following environment in your local by using Docker and minikube.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will create the following environment in your local by using Docker and minikube.  
```

```
On the Docker Network (named minikube)

                   +-----------------------+
  +-----------+    | +------------------+  |    +-----------+
  |           |    | | Scalar DB Server |  |    |           |
  |  Client   |    | +------------------+  |    | Cassandra |
  | Container |    |                       |    | Container |
  |           |    | Kubernetes (minikube) |    |           |
  +-----+-----+    +-----------+-----------+    +-----+-----+
        |                      |                      |
*-------+----------------------+----------------------+-------*
             ------->                     ------->
               gRPC                    Cassandra Driver
```

## Step 1. Install tools

First, you need to install the following tools that will be used in this guide.  

1. Install Docker according to the [Docker document](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/)  

1. Install minikube according to the [minikube document](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/)  

1. Install kubectl according to the [Kubernetes document](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/)  

> 1. Install helm command according to the [Helm document](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)  

Author: Thank you for your suggestion!  
I added articles (the) in each sentence of installing tools in the following commit.

7868d1d37418c232b552e1f3472108d290e7016a

> 1. Install helm command according to the [Helm document](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/)  

Author: Thank you for your suggestion!  
I added articles (the) in each sentence of installing tools in the following commit.

7868d1d37418c232b552e1f3472108d290e7016a

## Step 2. Start minikube with docker driver

> We need to start the Cassandra container as backend storage of the Scalar DB Server on the same network of the minikube, so you need to be started the minikube with docker driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I don't fully get the sentence, but do we need it? 
It seems confusing to talk about C* when setting up minikube and docker driver.

Author: This sentence explains about `docker network` to make Pods (on minikube) and Cassandra communicate properly.
However, it seems that it leads some confusing...
Also, since it will work properly by copy and paste, I think that users don't need to understand it (about docker network) to use this guide.

So, I apply this suggestion (delete this sentence).

1. Start minikube with docker driver.
   ```console
   $ minikube start --driver=docker
   ```

1. Check the status of the minikube and pods.
   ```console
   $ kubectl get pod -A
   NAMESPACE     NAME                               READY   STATUS    RESTARTS        AGE
   kube-system   coredns-64897985d-6jw6c            1/1     Running   0               3m27s
   kube-system   etcd-minikube                      1/1     Running   27              3m38s
   kube-system   kube-apiserver-minikube            1/1     Running   27              3m38s
   kube-system   kube-controller-manager-minikube   1/1     Running   27              3m38s
   kube-system   kube-proxy-5vcnc                   1/1     Running   0               3m27s
   kube-system   kube-scheduler-minikube            1/1     Running   27              3m38s
   kube-system   storage-provisioner                1/1     Running   1 (2m56s ago)   3m37s
   ```

>    If the minikube started properly, you can see some pods are `Running` in the kube-system namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the minikube starts properly, you can see some pods are `Running` in the kube-system namespace.
```

>    If the minikube started properly, you can see some pods in the kube-system namespace are `Running`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   If the minikube started properly, you can see some pods are `Running` in the kube-system namespace.
```

## Step 3. Start Cassandra container

> In this guide, we use Apache Cassandra as backend storage of Scalar DB Server, it will be started on the same network of Scalar DB Server (Pod on minikube) to enable proper communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use Apache Cassandra as the backend storage of Scalar DB Server. We start a Cassandra container on the same network of Scalar DB Server (Pod on minikube) to make them communicate properly.
```

> 1. Start Cassandra container on the Docker Network `minikube`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start a Cassandra container on the Docker Network `minikube`.
```

   ```console
   $ docker run --name cassandra-scalardb --network minikube -d cassandra:3.11
   ```
   * Note: 
       * The Docker Network `minikube` was created by `minikube start --driver=docker` command that we ran in Step 2.

>        * You can see the Cassandra version (tag) that we can specify (supported by Scalar DB) in [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/scalardb-supported-databases.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       * You can see the Scalar DB-supported Cassandra versions (tag) in [this document](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/scalardb-supported-databases.md).
```

       * If you want to create a schema for Scalar DB by running Schema Loader from localhost, you need to expose the container's 9042 port as follows.
         ```console
         $ docker run --name cassandra-scalardb --network minikube -p 127.0.0.1:9042:9042 -d cassandra:3.11
         ```

> 1. Check the Cassandra container is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check if the Cassandra container is running.
```

   ```console
   $ docker ps -f name=cassandra-scalardb
   CONTAINER ID   IMAGE            COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                                         NAMES
   6dceab0007c8   cassandra:3.11   "docker-entrypoint.s…"   2 minutes ago   Up 2 minutes   7000-7001/tcp, 7199/tcp, 9042/tcp, 9160/tcp   cassandra-scalardb
   ```

1. Check the status of Cassandra.
   ```console
   $ docker exec -t cassandra-scalardb cqlsh -e "show version"
   [cqlsh 5.0.1 | Cassandra 3.11.11 | CQL spec 3.4.4 | Native protocol v4]
   ```

>    It may take some time to start Cassandra in the container. So, if this command return error, wait a moment and then re-run it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It may take a while to start Cassandra in the container. So, if this command returns an error, wait a moment and then re-run it.
```

> ## Step 4. Deploy Scalar DB Server on minikube by Helm Charts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4. Deploy Scalar DB Server on the `minikube` network using Helm Charts
```

Author: In this section, the Scalar DB Server (Pod) is not deployed on Docker Network (named `minikube`) directly. It is deployed on the Kubernetes (called `minikube`).

There are two components called/named as `minikube` in this guide.

1. Kubernetes (Called minikube. Strictly, `minikube` is tool name.)
   ```console
   $ minikube node list
   minikube        192.168.49.2
   ```
1. Docker Network (Named `minikube`)
   ```console
   $ docker network ls
   NETWORK ID     NAME       DRIVER    SCOPE
   c559088d3182   bridge     bridge    local
   bb8d57173657   host       host      local
   ce80c2db5e83   minikube   bridge    local
   adedaa5ba9ab   none       null      local
   ```

So, Scalar DB (Pod) is deployed on `minikube` (Kubernetes) on `minikube` (Docker Network) as follows.

```
  +-----------------------+
  | +-------------------+ |
  | | Scalar DB (Pod)   | |
  | +-------------------+ |
  | Kubernetes Cluster    |
  | (Called minikube)     |
  +-----------+-----------+
              |
*-------------+--------------* Docker Network (named minikube)
```

I think it is very confusing, but since the Docker Network named automatically by `minikube (tool)`, we cannot rename it...
So, I fixed this title like the following in e77e76f286571cd8f0849aba32e2f81be016a34c. (I describe that deploying on the `Kubernetes` clearly.)

```
## Step 4. Deploy Scalar DB Server on the Kubernetes (minikube) using Helm Charts
```

For the same reason, I fixed the following sentence (Describe `Kubernetes` clearly) in e77e76f286571cd8f0849aba32e2f81be016a34c.

* before
  ```
  We use Apache Cassandra as the backend storage of Scalar DB Server. We start a Cassandra container on the same network of Scalar DB Server (Pod on minikube) to make them communicate properly.
  ```
* after
  ```
  We use Apache Cassandra as the backend storage of Scalar DB Server. We start a Cassandra container on the same network of Kubernetes (Scalar DB Server Pod on minikube) to make them communicate properly.
  ```

> In this section, we will deploy Scalar DB Server on minikube by using Helm Charts.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
If it just repeats the section title, I think we can remove it. If we need to say something more, then we should mention it here.

Author: OK. I remove redundancy point with section title.

> 1. Add Scalar's Helm Repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the Scalar Helm Repository.
```

   ```console
   $ helm repo add scalar-labs https://scalar-labs.github.io/helm-charts
   ```

> 1. Create custom value file for Scalar DB Server (scalardb-custom-values.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a custom value file for Scalar DB Server (scalardb-custom-values.yaml).
```

   ```console
   $ cat << EOF > scalardb-custom-values.yaml
   envoy:
     service:
       type: "NodePort"
   
   scalardb:
     storageConfiguration:
       contactPoints: "cassandra-scalardb"
       username: "cassandra"
       password: "cassandra"
       storage: "cassandra"
   EOF
   ```
   * Note:
       * If you want to access Scalar DB Server from 127.0.0.1 (your localhost), set `LoadBalancer` to `envoy.service.type` like the following.
         ```yaml
         envoy:
           service:
             type: "LoadBalancer"
         
         scalardb:
           storageConfiguration:
             contactPoints: "cassandra-scalardb"
             username: "cassandra"
             password: "cassandra"
             storage: "cassandra"
         ```

1. Deploy Scalar DB Server.
   ```console
   $ helm install scalardb scalar-labs/scalardb -f ./scalardb-custom-values.yaml
   ```

> 1. Check the Scalar DB Server Pods are deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check if the Scalar DB Server Pods are deployed.
```

   ```console
   $ kubectl get pod
   NAME                              READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
   scalardb-7674f74d6b-blxnj         1/1     Running   0          19m
   scalardb-7674f74d6b-kx5q7         1/1     Running   0          19m
   scalardb-7674f74d6b-mzwcr         1/1     Running   0          19m
   scalardb-envoy-5fb8f64786-5q6hn   1/1     Running   0          19m
   scalardb-envoy-5fb8f64786-8d7k5   1/1     Running   0          19m
   scalardb-envoy-5fb8f64786-t2xcv   1/1     Running   0          19m
   ```
   If the Scalar DB Server Pods are deployed properly, you can see the STATUS are `Running`.  

> 1. Check the Scalar DB Server Services are deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Check if the Scalar DB Server Services are deployed.
```

   scalardb-headless        ClusterIP   None             <none>        50051/TCP                         19m
   scalardb-metrics         ClusterIP   10.101.127.88    <none>        8080/TCP                          19m
   ```
   If the Scalar DB Server Services are deployed properly, you can see a private IP address in the CLUSTER-IP column. (Note: `scalardb-headless` has no CLUSTER-IP.)  

1. (Optional) If you set `LoadBalancer` to `envoy.service.type` in the `scalardb-custom-values.yaml`, you can access Scalar DB Server from 127.0.0.1.  
   To expose the `scalardb-envoy` service as your local `127.0.0.1:60051`, open another terminal, and run the `minikube tunnel` command.
   ```console
   $ minikube tunnel
   ```
   After running the `minikube tunnel` command, you can see the  EXTERNAL-IP of the `scalardb-envoy` as  `127.0.0.1`.
   ```console
   $ kubectl get svc scalardb-envoy
   NAME             TYPE           CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                           AGE
   scalardb-envoy   LoadBalancer   10.103.103.188   127.0.0.1     60051:32344/TCP,50052:30921/TCP   13m
   ```

## Step 5. Start Client container

> In this section, we will create a Client container to run a sample application of Scalar DB.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Ditto.

> 1. Start the Client container on the Docker Network `minikube`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start a Client container on the `minikube` network.
```

   ```console
   $ docker run -d --name scalardb-client --hostname scalardb-client --network minikube --entrypoint sleep ubuntu:20.04 inf
   ```

> 1. Check the Client container is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Check the status of the Client container.
```

   ```console
   $ docker ps -f name=scalardb-client
   CONTAINER ID   IMAGE          COMMAND       CREATED              STATUS              PORTS     NAMES
   a49eaf0c2442   ubuntu:20.04   "sleep inf"   About a minute ago   Up About a minute             scalardb-client
   ```

## Step 6. Run Scalar DB sample application in the Client container

> In this section, we will prepare and run the Scalar DB sample application.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Ditto.

> This guide explains the minimum steps. If you want to know more details about Scalar DB, please refer to the [Getting Started with Scalar DB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following explains the minimum steps. If you want to know more details about Scalar DB, please refer to the [Getting Started with Scalar DB
```

](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/getting-started-with-scalardb.md).

1. Run bash in the Client container.
   ```console
   $ docker exec -it scalardb-client bash
   ```
   After this step, run each command in the Client container.  

1. Install Git, OpenJDK 8, and curl in the Client container.
   ```console
   # apt update && DEBIAN_FRONTEND="noninteractive" TZ="Etc/UTC" apt install -y git openjdk-8-jdk curl
   ```

> 1. Clone Scalar DB's git repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Clone Scalar DB git repository.
```

   ```console
   # git clone https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb.git
   ```

1. Change dir to `scalardb/`.
   ```console
   # cd scalardb/ 
   # pwd
   /scalardb
   ```

1. Change branch to arbitrary version.
   ```
   # git checkout -b v3.5.1 refs/tags/v3.5.1
   # git branch
     master
   * v3.5.1
   ```
   If you want to use another version, please specify the version (tag) you want to use.

1. Build Scalar DB as a library.
   ```console
   # ./gradlew installDist
   ```

1. Change dir to `docs/getting-started/`.
   ```console
   # cd docs/getting-started/
   # pwd
   /scalardb/docs/getting-started
   ```

1. Download Schema Loader from [Scalar DB Releases](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases).
   ```console
   # curl -OL https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases/download/v3.5.1/scalardb-schema-loader-3.5.1.jar
   ```
   You need to use the same version of Scalar DB and Schema Loader.

> 1. Create configuration file (scalardb-schema-loader.properties) for Schema Loader.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a configuration file (scalardb-schema-loader.properties) for Schema Loader.
```

   EOF
   ```

1. Run Schema Loader (Create sample TABLE).
   ```console
   # java -jar ./scalardb-schema-loader-3.5.1.jar --config ./scalardb-schema-loader.properties -f emoney-transaction.json --coordinator
   ```

1. Create a configuration file (scalardb.properties) to access Scalar DB Server on minikube.
   ```console
   # cat << EOF > scalardb.properties
   scalar.db.contact_points=minikube
   scalar.db.contact_port=32344
   scalar.db.storage=grpc
   scalar.db.transaction_manager=grpc
   EOF
   ```
   * Note:
       * You need to specify the port number (NodePort) of `scalardb-envoy` (Kubernetes Service Resource) as a value of `scalar.db.contact_port` in the `scalardb.properties`. You can confirm the port number of `scalardb-envoy` with the `kubectl get svc scalardb-envoy` command.
         ```console
         $ kubectl get svc scalardb-envoy
         NAME             TYPE       CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                           AGE
         scalardb-envoy   NodePort   10.103.103.188   <none>        60051:32344/TCP,50052:30921/TCP   79m
         ```
         In this case, you need to specify `32344` to `scalar.db.contact_port` in the `scalardb.properties` file.

> 1. Run sample application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run the sample application.
```

   ```console
   # ../../gradlew run --args="-mode transaction -action charge -amount 1000 -to user1"
   # ../../gradlew run --args="-mode transaction -action charge -amount 0 -to merchant1"
   # ../../gradlew run --args="-mode transaction -action pay -amount 100 -to merchant1 -from user1"
   ```

> 1. (Optional) You can see the record data that modified (INSERT/UPDATE) by sample application by run query to Cassandra directly like the following. (This command run in your localhost. Not in the Client container.)  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. (Optional) You can see the inserted and modified (INSERT/UPDATE) data through the sample application using the following command. (This command needs to run on your localhost,  not on the Client container.)  
```

   ```console
   $ docker exec -t cassandra-scalardb cqlsh -e "SELECT * FROM emoney.account"
   
    id        | balance | before_balance | before_tx_committed_at | before_tx_id                         | before_tx_prepared_at | before_tx_state | before_tx_version | tx_committed_at | tx_id                                | tx_prepared_at | tx_state | tx_version
   -----------+---------+----------------+------------------------+--------------------------------------+-----------------------+-----------------+-------------------+-----------------+--------------------------------------+----------------+----------+------------
        user1 |     900 |           1000 |          1649830558289 | 78bdbb22-1ab4-4263-80c4-eacd9c6fbcfb |         1649830558262 |               3 |                 1 |   1649830585148 | d156b2dc-f791-4fd4-b3de-a6272eb2a680 |  1649830585119 |        3 |          2
    merchant1 |     100 |              0 |          1649830578857 | e4028217-ab4f-4755-ab31-fcc2ed93905f |         1649830578840 |               3 |                 1 |   1649830585148 | d156b2dc-f791-4fd4-b3de-a6272eb2a680 |  1649830585119 |        3 |          2
   
   (2 rows)
   ```
   * Note:

>        * Usually, you need to access data (record) via Scalar DB. You cannot use the data (record) by access backend DB directly like the above. This shows record directly for only explanation and confirm about the Scalar DB works.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       * Usually, you need to access data (record) through Scalar DB. The above command is used to explain and confirm the working of the sample application.
```

## Step 7. Delete all resources

> After you test Scalar DB Server on minikube, remove all resources.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After completing the Scalar DB Server tests on minikube, remove all sources.
```

   ```

1. Clone Scalar DB git repository.
   ```console
   git clone https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb.git
   ```

1. Change directory to `scalardb/`.
   ```console
   cd scalardb/
   ```
   ```console
   pwd
   ```
   [Command execution result]
   ```console
   /scalardb
   ```

1. Change branch to arbitrary version.
   ```console
   git checkout -b v3.5.1 refs/tags/v3.5.1
   ```
   ```console
   git branch
   ```
   [Command execution result]
   ```console
     master
   * v3.5.1
   ```
   If you want to use another version, please specify the version (tag) you want to use.

1. Build Scalar DB as a library.
   ```console
   ./gradlew installDist
   ```

1. Change directory to `docs/getting-started/`.
   ```console
   cd docs/getting-started/
   ```
   ```console
   pwd
   ```
   [Command execution result]
   ```console
   /scalardb/docs/getting-started
   ```

1. Download Schema Loader from [Scalar DB Releases](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases).
   ```console
   curl -OL https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/releases/download/v3.5.1/scalardb-schema-loader-3.5.1.jar
   ```
   You need to use the same version of Scalar DB and Schema Loader.

> 1. Create a configuration file (scalardb-schema-loader.properties) for Schema Loader.

Reviewer 3: We can create the schema via Scalar DB Server, so we can use the same configuration (`scalardb.properties`) as the one used by the sample application. What do you think?

Author: Thank you for your review!

I didn't know we can create the schema via Scalar DB Server...
(I thought I need to run Schema Loader against the backend DB directly...)

I agree with using the same configuration (scalardb.properties), because the document will be more simple!

I updated the document in 124b3927b742ef437d5ea4d110185d4304b2c1e3.
Please take a look.
